## Readings: Mongo and Mongoose
# [nosql vs sql](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool)

 	 
   
|          SQL                                                                |    	NoSQL                                                                                                     |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| Relational Databases (RDBMS)                                                |  non-relational or distributed database.                                                                      |
|  table based databases                                                      |   document based                                                                                              |
|represent data in form of tables which consists of n number of rows of data  |collection of key-value pair, documents, graph databases or wide-column stores (no standard schema definitions)|
|  have predefined schema                                                     |  have dynamic schema for unstructured data                                                                    |   
|  vertically scalable                                                        | horizontally scalable                                                                                         | 	 
 	 
### 1. What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?

SQL databases are good fit for the complex query intensive environment 

### 2. Give a real world example.

MySQL database is very popular open-source database. It is generally been stacked with apache and PHP.
By replicating MySQL database across multiple nodes the work load can be reduced heavily increasing the scalability and availability of business application

### 3. What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?

whereas NoSQL databases are not good fit for complex queries

### 4. Give a real world example.

Mongodb is one of the most popular document based NoSQL database as it stores data in JSON like documents.

### 5. Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?

NoSQL database fits better for the hierarchical data storage aWhat does SQL stand for?
What is a realational database?
What type of structure does a relational database work with?
What is a ‘schema’?
What is a NoSQL database?
Howo does it work?
What is inside of a Mongo database?
Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.
What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?
### 6. Which type of database is best for scalability?

NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable. You can just add few more servers easily in your NoSQL database infrastructure to handle the large traffic

# [sql vs nosql](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y)

### 1.What does SQL stand for?
Structured Query Language

### 2.What is a realational database?
 is a form of database which stores and allows access to connected data elements. The relationship data base is based on the relationship model "There has been a mistake
 
### 3.What type of structure does a relational database work with?
One-to-One One-to-Many Many-to-Many 

### 4.What is a ‘schema’?
A cognitive framework or concept that helps organize and interpret information.

### 5.What is a NoSQL database?
 are non tabular, and store data differently than relational tables. NoSQL databases come in a variety of types based on their data model.
 
### 6.How does it work?
We have collections, and inside them we have documents where the data is assigned

### 7.What is inside of a Mongo database?
colloections and inside them there is docouments

### 8.Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.
MongoDB; because you don’t have to use a Schema

### 9.What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?

NoSQL databases don't have the reliability functions which Relational Databases have (basically don't support ACID)

# [mongoose api](https://mongoosejs.com/docs/api.html#Model)

## Things I want to know more about
how to deal with SQL RDBMS

How to deal with NoSQL Non-RDBMS
