# Readings: CRUD
## [Status Codes Based On REST Methods](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)
### 1.In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

**100’s = **

Informational status codes; To tell the client that the header part of the request has been received and the server will try to comply with a transmission demand of the client. 

**200’s =**

The success codes. To tell the client that its request was accepted. 
 
**300’s =**

 Redirection codes. To tell the client that the resource they are requesting isn’t available at the expected location anymore. 
 
**400’s =**

Client error codes. They are all about invalid requests a client sent to a server.

There are several causes to this, timeouts, wrong URI, missing authentication, etc. 

**500’s =**

the server error codes. Often they indicate problems with overwhelmed servers or unreachable servers behind proxies, but sometimes they can be directly
related to client requests that trigger error exceptions on the server. 

These errors can be temporary or permanent. Usually it’s best for the client to 
retry the same request.


### 2.What is a status code 202?

Accepted - Often used for asynchronous processing. This code tells the client that the request was valid, but its processing will finish sometime in the future. 

### 3.What is a status code 308?
Permanent Redirect - This tells the client to use another URL to access the resource and not use the current URL anymore. 

### 4.What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?

204 No Content.

### 5.What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?

410 Gone.

### 6.What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?

403 Forbidden - The client has authorized or doesn’t need to authorize itself, but still has no permissions to access the resource.


## [Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fgTGADljAeg)

### 1.Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?
### 2.What is middleware?
### 3.What does app.use(express.json()) do?
### 4.What does the /:id mean in a route?
### 5.What is the difference beween PUT and PATCH?
### 6.How do you make a defalut value in a schema?
### 7.### 4.What does a 500 error status code mean?
### 8.What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?
