## Readings: Authentication
## [What is OAuth](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3216404/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)

### 1. What is OAuth?

OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that describes how unrelated servers and services can safely 
allow authenticated access to their assets without actually sharing the initial, related, single logon credential.
In authentication parlance, this is known as secure, third-party, user-agent, delegated authorization.
(OAuth only works using HTTPS)

### 2. Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.

1. when you go to log onto a website and it offers one or more opportunities to log on using another website’s/service’s logon.
You then click on the button linked to the other website, the other website authenticates you, and the website you were originally 
connecting to logs you on itself afterward using permission gained from the second website.

2. a user sending cloud-stored files to another user via email, when the cloud storage and email systems are otherwise unrelated other than 
supporting the OAuth framework (e.g., Google Gmail and Microsoft OneDrive). 

### 3. How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?

1. The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.

2. The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.

3. The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.

4. The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).

5. If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.

6. The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.

7. The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).

8. The user gives the approved access token to the first website.

9. The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.

10. The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.

11 The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring.

12. OAuth is not the first authentication/authorization system to work this way on behalf of the end-user. In fact, many authentication systems, notably Kerberos, work similarly. What is special about OAuth is its ability to work across the web and its wide adoption. 
 succeeded with adoption rates where previous attempts failed (for various reasons).

### 4. What is OpenID?
1. OpenID is about authentication

2. "OpenID is for humans logging into machines, OAuth is for machines logging into machines on behalf of humans."

## [Authorization and Authentication flows](https://auth0.com/docs/flows)

### 1.What is the difference between authorization and authentication?
 
 authentication :is the process of verifying who a user is.

authorization : is the process of verifying what they have access to.

### 2.What is Authorization Code Flow?

1. The user clicks **Login** within the regular web application.

2. Auth0's SDK(  Software Development Kit:a set of tools for third-party developers to use in producing applications using a particular framework or platform.) redirects the user to the Auth0 Authorization Server (/authorize endpoint).

3. Your Auth0 Authorization Server redirects the user to the login and authorization prompt.

4. The user authenticates using one of the configured login options and may see a consent page listing the permissions Auth0 will give to the regular web application.

5. Your Auth0 Authorization Server redirects the user back to the application with an authorization code, which is good for one use.

6. Auth0's SDK sends this code to the Auth0 Authorization Server (/oauth/token endpoint) along with the application's Client ID and Client Secret.

7. Your Auth0 Authorization Server verifies the code, Client ID, and Client Secret.

8. Your Auth0 Authorization Server responds with an ID Token and Access Token (and optionally, a Refresh Token).

9. Your application can use the Access Token to call an API to access information about the user.

10.The API responds with requested data.

### 3.What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?

When public clients (e.g., native and single-page applications) request Access Tokens, some additional security concerns are posed 
that are not mitigated by the Authorization Code Flow alone. This is because:

Native apps: Cannot securely store a Client Secret. Decompiling the app will reveal the Client Secret, which is bound to the app and is the same for all users and devices.

May make use of a custom URL scheme to capture redirects (e.g., MyApp://) potentially allowing malicious applications to receive an Authorization Code from your Authorization
Server.

Single-page apps: Cannot securely store a Client Secret because their entire source is available to the browser.

### 4.What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?

Implicit Flow with Form Post flow uses OIDC(	OpenID Connect (protocol)) to implement web sign-in that is very similar to the way SAML and WS-Federation operates. 
The web app requests and obtains
tokens through the front channel, without the need for secrets or extra backend calls. With this method, you don’t need to obtain, maintain, use, 
and protect a secret in your application.

### 5.What is Client Credentials Flow?

With machine-to-machine (M2M) applications, such as CLIs, daemons, or services running on your back-end, the system authenticates and authorizes the app rather than a user. 
For this scenario, typical authentication schemes like username + password or social logins don't make sense. Instead, M2M apps use the Client Credentials Flow
, in which they pass along their Client ID and Client Secret to authenticate
themselves and get a token.

### 6.What is Device Authorization Flow?

With input-constrained devices that connect to the internet, rather than authenticate the user directly, the device asks the user to go to a link on their 
computer or smartphone and authorize the device. This avoids a poor user experience for devices that do not have an easy way to enter text. To do this, device apps use
the Device Authorization Flow (ratified in OAuth 2.0), in which they pass along their 
Client ID to initiate the authorization process and get a token.

### 7.What is Resource Owner Password Flow?

highly-trusted applications can use the Resource Owner Password Flow, 
which requests that users provide credentials (username and password), typically using an interactive form. Because credentials are sent to the backend and can be stored for 
future use before being exchanged for an Access Token, it is imperative that the application is absolutely trusted with this information.

Even if this condition is met, the Resource Owner Password Flow should only be used when redirect-based flows (like the Authorization Code Flow) cannot be used.

## [Auth0 for single page apps](https://auth0.com/docs/libraries/auth0-react)

The Auth0 React SDK (auth0-react.js) is a JavaScript library for implementing authentication and authorization in React apps with Auth0. It provides a custom React hook and other Higher Order Components so you can secure React apps using best practices while writing less code.

The Auth0 React SDK handles grant and protocol details, token expiration and renewal, as well as token storage and caching. Under the hood, it implements Universal Login and the Authorization Code Grant Flow with PKCE.

## Things I want to know more about
How To use AuthO React SDK to my App
